# PrISM : Annotating Precision for Integrative Structure Models
PrISM is a package for visualizing regions of high and low precision in ensembles of integrative models. It uses autoencoders, a class of deep-learning networks, to annotate bead-wise precision in a scalable and efficient manner for ensembles of large macromolecular assemblies.

## Installation
PrISM requires [IMP](http://integrativemodeling.org) to be installed.

It also requires a list of python packages that can be installed with the following types of commands:

```
pip3 install --user -r install_requires.txt
or
pip install -r install_requires.txt
```

## Running PriSM

### Input formats
There are three ways to run PrISM, based on the inputs at hand.

1. `NPZ`: Runs PrISM directly on the output of the IMP analysis pipeline, after running `imp-sampcon`, the module to test sampling exhaustiveness and cluster sampled models generated using [IMP](http://integrativemodeling.org). For each output cluster, the superposed bead coordinates are stored in an `.npz` file (e.g., `cluster.0.superposed.npz` for cluster 0), which is passed as input to PriSM.  

2. `RMF`: Runs PrISM on a directory with a set of superposed integrative models in RMF format.
Note that PrISM assumes that the models are structurally superposed and does not perform the superposition before calculating precision.
The RMF format is commonly used to store integrative models generated by [IMP](http://integrativemodeling.org).

3. `PDB`: Runs PrISM on a directory with a set of superposed integrative models in PDB format.
Note that PrISM assumes that the models are structurally superposed and does not perform the superposition before calculating precision.
The PDB format is commonly used to store atomistic integrative models.

### Training Parameters
Parameters for training the deep neural network are specified in the YAML file ([Sample test_config.yml](src/test_config.yaml)).
A brief description of each is provided in the comments below.

```
model_desc: Default PrISM hyperparameters established on benchmarks.
model_params:
  encoder_depth: 2 # number of layers in the encoder network
  decoder_depth: 3 # number of layers in the decoder network
  latent_dim: 64 # number of neurons in the latent space
lr: 1e-3 # learning rate, controls how much the model is changed in response to error each time
batch_size: 64 # number of inputs trained at once, larger is better. This depends on the available system memory.
max_epochs: 50 # number of steps to train the network.
```

### Run command

Use `src/run_prism.py`to generate the precision for the given input. Use the `--help` option to generate descriptions of arguments.

### Run command examples

#### Example 1. PrISM on NPZ file
To run PrISM on an NPZ file, use the following type of command. Here, we assume you are in the `example/1AVX_sample_npz` directory:

```
$IMP/build/setup_environment.sh python ../../src/run_prism.py  --input 1AVX_all_models_coordinates.npz --output_dir output/ --type npz --config ../../src/test_config.yml --gpu 1
```
(**test1**)

Here `$IMP` is the path to local installation of IMP (if compiled from source). If IMP has been installed using a binary installer, the `$IMP/build/setup_environment.sh` argument may be skipped.

This runs the training on the GPU on the given NPZ input file and generates an output `bead_precision.txt` file.

To run the same command on the CPU instead, set the gpu flag to 0 (**test2**)

#### Example 2.  PrISM on NPZ file with new hyperparameters

One can change the default size of the network or other learning parameters in the YAML file and rerun.
But the expensive step of input generation need not be performed if PrISM has already been run once on the system. To skip input generation one can run as follows.

```
$IMP/build/setup_environment.sh python ../../src/run_prism.py  --input 1AVX_all_models_coordinates.npz --skip_input_generation 1 --output_dir output/ --type npz --config ../../src/test_config.yml --gpu 1
```
(**test3**)

#### Example 3. PrISM on RMF file
Here's an example with an RMF file. Assumes you are in `example/1AVX_sample_rmf` directory.

```
$IMP/build/setup_environment.sh python ../../src/run_prism.py  --input rmfs/ --output_dir output/ --type rmf --config ../../src/test_config.yml --gpu 1
```
(**test4**)

#### Example 4. PrISM on RMF file and selected subunit

Here's another example with RMF and assuming you want to calculate precision on a given subunit only (perhaps because the rest of the subunits were fixed during modeling).
Here precision is calculated on the protein `B`.

```
$IMP/build/setup_environment.sh python ../../src/run_prism.py  --input rmfs/ --output_dir output/ --type rmf --config ../../src/test_config.yml --gpu 1 --subunit B
```
(**test5**)

### Using the output
The output precision values are stored in a text file ``.

`color_precision.py`

Visualize in Chimera. 
